---
title: "The December 22, 2018 Anak Krakatau, Indonesia, landslide and tsunami: preliminary modeling results"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2020-paag-krakatau
excerpt: 'Krakatau landslide and tsunami modeling'
date: 2019-12-20
venue: 'Pure and Applied Geophysics'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/The_December_22_2018_Anak_Krakatau_Indonesia_Lands.pdf'
citation: "Paris, A., Heinrich, P., Paris, R. & Abadie, S. (2020) 'The December 22, 2018 Anak Krakatau, Indonesia, landslide and tsunami: preliminary modeling results', <i>Pure and Applied Geophysics</i> <b>177</b>, 571–590"
---
On the evening of December 22, 2018, the coasts of the Sunda Strait, Indonesia, were hit by a tsunami generated by the collapse of a part of the Anak Krakatau volcano. Hundreds of people were killed, thousands were injured and displaced. This paper presents a preliminary modeling of the volcano flank collapse and the tsunami generated based on the results of a 2D depth-averaged coupled model involving a granular rheology and a Coulomb friction for the slide description and dispersive effects for the water flow part. With a reconstructed total volume (subaerial and submarine) of the landslide of 150 million m<sup>3</sup> inferred from pre and post-collapse satellite and aerial images, the comparison of the simulated water waves with the observations (tide gauges located all around the strait, photographs and field surveys) is satisfactory. Due to the lack of information for the submarine part of the landslide, the reconstructed submarine slope is assumed to be approximately constant. A significant time delay on the results and particularly in the Bandar Lampung Bay could be attributed to imprecisions of bathymetric data. The sensitivity to the basal friction and to dispersive effects is analyzed through numerical tests. Results show that the influence of the basal friction angle on the simulated wave heights decreases with distance and that a value of 2 gives consistent results with the observations. The dispersive effects are assessed by comparing water waves simulated by a shallow water model and a Boussinesq model. Simulations with frequency dispersion produce longer wave periods and smaller wave amplitudes in the Sunda Strait and particularly in deep waters.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/The_December_22_2018_Anak_Krakatau_Indonesia_Lands.pdf)

Recommended citation: Paris, A., Heinrich, P., Paris, R. & Abadie, S. (2020) 'The December 22, 2018 Anak Krakatau, Indonesia, landslide and tsunami: preliminary modeling results', <i>Pure and Applied Geophysics</i> <b>177</b>, 571–590.
