---
title: "Landslide tsunamis: Comparison between depth-averaged and Navier-Stokes models"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2021-ceng-comparison
excerpt: 'A comparison between a depth-averaged model and a Navier-Stokes model (OpenFOAM)'
date: 2021-09-28
venue: 'Coastal Engineering'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/Article_Coastal_Engineering_HAL.pdf'
citation: "Paris, A., Heinrich, P. & Abadie, S. (2021), 'Landslide tsunamis: Comparison between depth-averaged and Navier-Stokes models', <i>Coastal Engineering</i> <b>170</b>(104022)"
---
Two approaches are proposed to simulate tsunamis generated by granular landslides: a depth-averaged
model, AVALANCHE, and laminar Navier-Stokes simulations using the OpenFOAM model. Both models
are validated against two 2D benchmarks, a subaerial and a submerged one involving a triangle initial
slide shape. In both models, the landslide is defined as a viscous fluid flowing downslope. Except in the
first instants, both models can reproduce either the landslide behavior or the generated first water waves
but can not reproduce simultaneously both the landslide and the water surface. There is an overlap in
the optimal viscosity range between both models. Sensitivity studies are carried out by varying the slope
angle and the landslide submergence for the subaerial benchmark. The largest waves are obtained for
initial landslide position close to the free surface. The height of the generated waves increases linearly
with the slope angle and the landslide Reynolds number in the depth-averaged model. The relationships
are more complex in the Navier-Stokes model. For low slide Reynolds numbers and with an initial slide
close to the free surface, both models produce similar waves. Nine additional cases are performed with a
k − ϵ turbulence closure model and varying the submergence and the slope angle.

[Download paper here](http://academicpages.github.io/files/Article_Coastal_Engineering_HAL.pdf)

Recommended citation: Paris, A., Heinrich, P. & Abadie, S. (2021), 'Landslide tsunamis: Comparison between depth-averaged and Navier-Stokes models', <i>Coastal Engineering</i> <b>170</b>(104022).
