---
title: "Comparison of 2DH and 3D codes for tsunami landslide modeling"
collection: talks
type: "Talk"
permalink: /talks/ics2021
venue: "International Coastal Symposium 2021"
date: 2021-05-04
location: "online"
---

The associated risk to a tsunami is a combination of the hazard which depends on the source type (earthquake, landslide or volcano), the exposition of the studied coastal area and the vulnerability of the population in this area. This vulnerability increases with the population's density at the coasts while with global warming and related water level rising, exposition may also be augmented. To a lesser extent, the hazard can increase too. For instance, the permafrost melting in Arctic destabilizes the soil and leads to landslides.
In this context, it is important to understand the physics of tsunamigenic landslides, from their initiation to the coupling with the water surface elevation, including their displacement. To simulate these events, two principal types of codes are used : the depth-integrated 2DH codes, and full Navier-Stokes 3D codes. As they are fast to run, the first ones have proven to be useful in a practical context, nevertheless they are also subject to a few limiting assumptions. Navier-Stokes models are obviously more realistic but they are also very time-consuming, both during case preparation and computation. Nevertheless, with ongoing CPU development, this limitation tends to disappear and 3D calculations will be used more and more.
In the proposed communication, we will compare a 2DH code (Avalanche) developed at CEA, with a 3D opensource code, OpenFoam on a benchmark case corresponding to a granular slide experiment performed in a former PhD thesis (Sylvain Viroulet, 2014). The differences between the two model results will be analysed in order to determine the cases allowing the use of 2DH models and the ones reserved to full 3D computations.
